# Supplementary information for: Identification and functional analysis of recent IS transposition events in rhizobia. By Mogro EG. et al 2024
## Index
1. **Figure S1:** COG functional analysis using only used the proteins with a DLIS insertion in the target genome, in that way, the complete sequence always corresponded to the reference genome which allowed us to avoid overcounting certain functions.

COGs functional categories for all the genes interrupted by a DLIS were assigned with eggNOG-mapper. A. Distribution of DLIS interrupted genes by COG functional category. B. The heatmap was generated with a custom python script using seaborn. COG categorías are as follows. -: Not assigned; A: RNA processing and modification; B: Chromatin Structure and dynamics; C: Energy production and conversion; D: Cell cycle control and mitosis; E: Amino Acid metabolism and transport, F: Nucleotide metabolism and transport, G: Carbohydrate metabolism and transport; H: Coenzyme metabolism; I: Lipid metabolism; J: Translation; K: Transcription; L: Replication and repair; M: Cell wall/membrane/envelope biogenesis; N: Cell motility; O: Post-translational modi fication, protein turnover, chaperone functions; P: Inorganic ion transport and metabolism; Q: Secondary metabolites biosynthesis, transport and catabolism; R: General Functional Prediction only; S: Function Unknown; T: Signal Transduction; U: Intracellular trafficking and secretion; V: Defense mechanisms: W: Extracellular structures: X: Mobilome: prophages, transposons; Y: Nuclear structure; Z: Cytoskeleton.

2. **Table S1**. Table S1.A: The accession numbers for the sequences used in this study. Table S1.B: Pairwise comparisons made with ISCompare to identify DLIS. Table S1.C: total number of IS in a determined genome estimated as the number of transposases plus the number of other genes annotated with functions related to insertion sequences. Table S1.D: Average IS counts per genus. Table S1.D. Average IS counts per replicon.

3. **Table S2**. ISCompare results. A. DLIS per replicon. B. Proportion of active DLIS

4. **Table S3**. DLIS Locations. A. DLIS location classification in _intergenic_,_within gene_, _operon_, _promoter region_. B. List of all interrupted genes. C. List of genes that were interrupted in strains that were not used as reference.
